# Ordinance Making Power of President:

#Article-123 - #President - can make law - into effect - when - #Parliament - suspended. This has same effect - with nature of temporary law. 
Ordinance making is important power of #President . There are four limitation for exercising the power.
1. #President - can make law - when - both the houses - not in session - or - one of the houses - not in session. Law can - passed - when - any of the houses are in session. An Ordinance(==emergency law==) made - becomes void - when - both the houses are in session.
2. Ordinance - made - only when the situation renders. #Copper-case (1970) - Supreme court - asked #President - satisfaction of creating ordinance - can be questioned by court on the ground of malafide(==decision made on bad faith==). Means - #President prorogued (==without dissolving the houses==) - both the houses or one of the houses - bypass the parliament decision - circumventing the current situation. 38th #constituional-amendment-act  1975 - #President decision is final and conclusive - before judicial review. In 44 #constituional-amendment-act  1978 - deleted. President Action  - can be questioned on the ground of malafide.
3. Ordinance making has to be within the power of parliament making law. It should  not affect any fundamental rights
4. Ordinance - created - when recess of houses of parliament - it has to submitted before - houses - reassembles. Both the houses approves - it becomes a act - If didn't give any answer  - Ordinance - will expiry on 6 weeks from the reassemble. It can also be expired - both the houses disapprove. Time period - 6 months and 6 week (6 months is session gap) - if ordinance not submitted - past time period - it will be valid.

Promote or withdraw - Ordinance - advise of the #Council-of-Minister headed by #Prime-Minister .It can anything within fundamental rights - Cannot be made into constitution. Unusual power of president unlike USA and UK  - Ordinance can be issued - not only in the time of national emergency. It can be issued any time. Bill placed - replace the ordinance - rules - submit in what circumstance it has been issued. #D-C-Wadhawa-case 1987 - governor of Bihar promulgated 256 ordinance b/w 1967- 1981. Repromulgated the ordinance 1 to 14 years without  taking effort of passing it as a bill.
